Okay, so let's take a look at Spring.
With neither Spring nor JAX-RS,
we're trying to provide a fully-fledged training course on the framework.
That's out of the scope here.
We're just trying to explain how you can integrate JSON with
these frameworks and will attempt to explain any background
knowledge on the topic required.
What is Spring?
Spring started out life as an inversion of control container.
A bit like a dependency injection framework on steroids.
Over time,
it's evolved to be a broader and more powerful general
application framework with support for web,
batch, and reactive programming.
At the moment, Spring is incredibly popular.
Probably the most popular web application and web
service framework in the Java ecosystem.
That's why we're going to cover a specific example of how to work
with Spring because it's what so many people use.
In this section,
we'll look specifically at how you integrate JSON with Spring
rather than how we use Spring framework as a whole.
So, how are we using Spring?
In this section,
we'll cover a similar service example to the previous
sections where we've used servlets.
Users will post a bank loan application to our service,
and we'll provide a result that either approves or denies the bank loan.
The code examples here all use Spring Boot,
which is a rapid application development version of Spring that
takes a convention over configuration approach.
The basic annotations that we use here are actually all
applicable in Spring web projects as well.
It's just we're using Spring Boot to run the demo application because
it's a popular and useful way of bootstrapping,
thus the name, a Spring project.
So the first thing to note about building web service using
Spring is it takes the approach of using annotations to declare
how a class implements a web service.
The framework itself takes this annotated class and exposes it as a web service,
generating a lot of code for you on the fly so you
don't have to write it yourself.
The @RestController annotation tells Spring that the class in
question is a controller class for a web service.
So doing an HTTP request will result in the
invocation of a method on this class.
The @RequestMapping annotation tells Spring that a given method
should be called when an HTTP request comes in.
Its value describes the URL that should map to the Java method in question.
The method = POST parameter to this annotation shown here
tells Spring that this method should only be invoked when
it's an HTTP POST request.
This approach is a higher level,
more declarative alternative to something like servlets,
and ultimately Spring Boot itself can deploy onto a
servlet container and produce a servlet.
Now you know the basics of how web services in Spring are written,
we can focus on how to integrate JSON with them.
First, let's take a look at consuming JSON.
In the Spring web annotation world,
remote procedure calls map to local method calls.
So the values that you receive from systems that call your
web service come as method parameters.
If you want to deserialize the body of an HTTP POST request as JSON,
you can simply provide an annotation to a method parameter called @RequestBody,
simple.
Spring will deserialize this value from a JSON input through convention
rather than having to be explicitly told to do so.
Okay, so consuming JSON was very simple.
What about producing JSON?
Well,
there are several different approaches to producing
JSON from a Spring web service.
Spring includes an ApplicationResponse class which can take
a POJO as a payload and Spring will automatically emit JSON
from that POJO as a result.
Alternatively, not shown in the example on this slide,
is to just return the POJO directly from your method and annotate
the method or the return type with @ResponseBody,
which tells Spring to use that as the body of the response,
as it says on the tin.
You can also put a parameter on your method with the HttpServletResponse type
and Spring will inject the appropriate value for your request.
You can then use this for producing JSON with a non-binding API.
A similar approach can be used with HttpServletRequest should you want to use a streaming-style parsing approach.